hi everyone well I wanted to talk to you
about a very interesting story that I've
been following for some time which is
the story of Justina Pelletier so
Justina Pelletier is a young girl who
had been diagnosed at tufts with a
mitochondrial disorder and she'd been
following treatment everything was going
well and then she was supposed to go to
Boston Children's Hospital for for
treatment of symptom flare-up related to
this and what followed ended up
basically being a nightmare for her and
her family and has resulted in a very
interesting and important case sort of
on the legal end because we know that
the Department of Child and Family
Services and CPS and the medical
professional so they do kind of
overstepped their boundaries sometimes
and sometimes I think when they make
mistakes they would rather continue with
the mistake even at the expense of the
well-being of the people who are on the
receiving end of it rather than admit
that they've made a mistake it happens
and it's a huge injustice and many
families have suffered because of this
so this is a very interesting case and
you'll see why so she went to Boston
Children's Hospital and when she got
there instead of seeing the doctor she
was supposed to see she ended up seeing
a resident who had only been practicing
for seven months and this resident
disagreed with the diagnosis of
mitochondrial disease and he consulted
with a psychologist whose name it was
Simona boo joke boo boo Joanna I'm sorry
I know it's Romanian but it's hard to
pronounce anyhow so the this doctor
disagreed that it was a mitochondrial
disease and said it was a somatoform
disorder what you call it yep somewhat
form disorder which is like a
psychological disorder where you have
disease symptoms in your body but it
comes from your head and this doctor is
pretty invested in this diagnosis I
guess she this is sort of her specialty
and she's working on research in this
area
she actually believed that fifty percent
of illness symptoms and kids could be
caused by some out of form disorder like
it's all in your head so anyhow what
happened was then they sort of scrap the
original treatment plan and try to
revise it and the parents disagreed and
that's where everything went completely
haywire they called the child protection
and they took Justine away from her
parents Linda and Lou pelletier and they
basically kept her prisoner in hospital
and she's been there for like a year now
and withholding treatment for
mitochondrial disease and then they you
know they cut off the parents from
contact at some point they had issued a
gag order on the parents that they
couldn't talk about in the media which
they did anyway and then you know they
made it out like the parents were doing
something wrong and they were putting
their daughter in jeopardy but really I
mean the evidence shows that it was the
hospital that dead wrong misdiagnosed
mistreated her and kidnapped her now
while she was or has been in the in the
custody of the hospital it also became
apparent that she was really not being
treated well aside from the fact she's
not getting the medical treatment she
needs she was being kind of abused as
revealed in in notes she had sent this
shocking note to her parents which says
that they don't let her sleep very much
and that they they hurt me all the time
pushed me all the time and more there
was an also an incident where justina
was harassed my staffers while taking a
shower this was reported by justine a
sister that she was harassed a while
naked in the shower by a male staffer
although of course the hospital denies
these allegations and in fact Justina
Pelletier sister I'd reported that
Justina's help was scary while she was
in custody of the hospital and there are
some videos out in some pictures you
could really see how much justina had
deteriorated she went from being an
active teen who was doing things like
skating to being confined to a
wheelchair and not doing well at all but
the story seems to be heading
towards a happy ending the family did
have a very good advocate Reverend
Patrick Mahoney who had the cojones to
stand up to the the state and the courts
also the Peltier's had made a facebook
page which has over 44,000 likes on it a
miracle for justina which had a
tremendous impact in terms of getting
public support and as you see by their
post here you're really encouraging
people to keep calling just keep calling
let those who are handling this know
that the public knows that what they're
doing isn't right and that justina needs
to be released and sent home to be with
her parents where she belongs and it
looks like that's finally what's going
to be happening that there's a
reunification plan made by a DCF and
since the conditions have been met it
looks like justina will be finally
heading home it can't happen soon enough
and I just think that this is a good
example of how a people in positions of
power tend to get a god complex
sometimes and abuse their power but that
public supports and you know strength in
numbers can sort of even the score that
by having enough public support you can
help get just this done instead of just
getting being a victim just being
victimized and having to just sort of
shut up about it that together we can
fight for justice for each other and so
Regis Tina I'm really happy to see this
is turning out good and thanks for
listening to me and I'll see
just across